I think, I mean you could state it as a question
you know, do you become vegan and then break
with the cultural norm because of veganism
or is it that you're someone who's already
broken with the cultural norm and then finds
it easy to engage with veganism.
. . . I see that, you know, sincerely as
a really interesting piece of the puzzle and
maybe that's also why it's so difficult to
organize vegans, right?
Because you got a bunch of different people
and each one is kind of fragmented away from
their own home culture or rebelling against
it or acting out against it in different ways,
but we're as different, we’re severally,
as different as I am from Fully Raw Kristina,
we're as different as I am from Charles Marlow,
even we’re as different as I am from Gary
Francione.
. . . I mean you know I’ve got to say it's
the burden that I've lived with all my life,
I really do feel that way, but veganism gave
me a coherent framework and a lens to understand
it and express it much better than before.
. . . In precisely the strictest sense of
the word perspective, it put all the other
problems in perspective, you could see what
was big and what was in fact small but close
to you, you know in contrast to things that
really were huge but perhaps you know more
remote.
à-bas-le-ciel “The most value you’ve
brought to the vegan movement…” he says
I’m quoting him; “The most value you’ve
brought to the vegan movement has been critique
so far, but I think that will change as the
different approaches become crystallised for
people and you find your collaborators.”
. . . “You’ve had a big impact on clarifying
ideas for me, and I hope you will find your
activist group and for me more/better vegan
ones, and we can all inspire each other with
real world progress.”
. . . So he says here, he: “[agrees] with
another youtuber called theFlemface about
how it's easier to find veganism when you’re
already breaking with [your own] culture.”
Okay this is doubtless true and I think that's
also true about my engagement with Buddhism
and a lot of other things.
I think Melissa has been reflecting on that
in some ways because you've just been we've
just gone back to visit your family and seen
a lot of things in your basement, see what
you grew up with, but I mean fundamentally
I was never comfortable in Canadian culture,
period.
Melissa: Yeah I was never comfortable in the
culture that I grew up with either.
Right, right, so it's interesting.
Melissa: I always felt distance from it.
I think, I mean you could state it as a question
you know, do you become vegan and then break
with the cultural norm because of veganism
or is it that you're someone who's already
broken with the cultural norm and then finds
it easy to engage with veganism, and for some
people it’s gonna be both, there's not you
know what I mean like it doesn't have to be
all one of the other.
But no I mean, I was really disgusted with
my own culture, I could go over some of the
things, and of course it relates to particular
political events prior to 2001, relates to
all these things, but sure you know I don't
know what it would be like for someone who
loves you know being an American who loves
living in Texas and his protest… and you
know who loves and is totally comfortable
with that culture and you know watches football
games and everything else and yet they're
vegan.
We see that with the health based vegans and
so on often enough, but in terms of ethical
veganism I mean you know once you're an ethical
vegan, once you see the world in those terms,
even just from the ecological perspective,
how you know how do you still watch football
the way you did before, you know I mean that
sincerely, I don't mean that as a taunt or
an insult to someone like what is the meaning
of your life now watching football and you
know doing those other things he used to do.
Because from my perspective, you know ethical
veganism even if you just think of at the
ecological aspect, you think about the millions
of animals dying in cages all around the world
and now here you are at this football game,
even though you personally aren't eating ribs
at the football game and everyone else is,
it must suddenly make the other things in
your life seem you know meaningless and not
even not just meaningless but you know pernicious
as part of the destruction of the world, as
opposed to saving the world, as part of a
meaningless self-indulgent and destructive
life as opposed to a meaningful and helpful
one.
So, again and like I'm not even saying this
to insult her, nor the flatter her, but you
can compare that to someone in Texas like
Fully Raw Kristina, Fully Raw Kristina obviously
could never fit into Texas in a million different
ways and you know she is Texan and she lives
in Texas, but it's not surprising she ended
up where she's at I guess with that perspective.
So no, I see that you know sincerely isn't
a really interesting piece of the puzzle and
maybe that's also why it's so difficult to
organize vegans, right?
Because you got a bunch of different people
and each one is kind of fragmented away from
their own home culture or rebelling against
it or acting out against it in different ways,
but we're as different, we’re severally,
as different as I am from Fully Raw Kristina,
we're as different as I am from Charles Marlow,
even we’re as different as I am from Gary
Francione.
I mean think about, think about that guy,
I mean Gary Francione is obviously incredibly
uncomfortable with the culture he's a part
of, Gary Francione, you get that rage and
that Sorrow in everything he does, you know,
just dissatisfaction too, just ranker, but
he's a salaried professor, I don’t know
if he's retired now you know, in many ways
he's a member of the establishments and so
on and yeah getting any two or three of those
people to cooperate seems to be impossible
even though I have so much in common with
someone like Gary Francione, we can't even
agree on how to pronounce his name.
. . . I mean I guess I can get into this in
a separate video, but for all of us I mean
that's ultimately what it comes down to, is
the number of hours in a day and how you can
make any of these aspirations you know to
save the world compatible with the challenge
of keeping a roof over your head, or providing
a decent standard of living to your own kids
if you have kids or any of these other things.
I remember, there’s is saying in Buddhism
this is in Mahayana Buddhism but they say,
it is in some moderately ancient text, but
not the most ancient texts of Buddhism, it
says you know “practice the Dharma as if
your hat is on a fire,” you know if you're
wearing a hat that's on fire and you know
a lot of religions have that spirit of like
the world is gonna end so work really hard
and devote yourself to this whatever I mean
veganism it's weird I don't feel that the
world is gonna end I feel that the world is
bad and is getting worse, but I mean it's
a horrible, I mean it's an absolutely horrible
cosmology we live with as vegans, ethically
and ecologically and um you know I do still
ask myself that question every day you know
how would you live your life if you were trying
to save the world I have a daughter my daughter's
four years old I do prioritize spending down
with my daughter I do burn the jet fuel to
fly from Canada to France and spend my 15
days of my daughter you know and all these
things but sure when we're looking at these
options.
So he's talking about getting a university
degree and being a tree surgeon doing something
linked to ecology I you know I went to babe,
back when I was a political science major
I went to and I took classes in the Department
of Ecology at another university, not worth
throwing the whole story, but it was a ton
of work it was taking the subway for so many
hours across town and then he'd get out and
take a bus to go from one universe to the
other, just to be in this Department of Ecology,
I was trying to talk to people there because
I really thought at that time I should maybe
switch my major from Political Science to
Ecology or something like Political Ecology.
I was wanting to make a difference and of
course when I got there, departments a joke,
the courses are a waste of your time, you
know how it is, you know how universities
are, we've done a million videos talking about
that, But my problem is I have no delusion,
it would be a wonderful delusion if I thought
that getting a PhD in Ecology could make any
difference in the world, even on this YouTube
channel, I don't think if I got a PhD in Ecology
would even help this YouTube channel in any
way, I don't think it would help the vegan
world.
If I got a PhD in Ecology I don't think there's
anything I could do that Gary Francione hasn't
already done or even the Gary Yourovsky hasn't
already done, without having a PhD in ecology,
you know and I don't think they’d teach
me anything I couldn't learn you know, okay
I don't mean that, they would teach me a lot
of things, but they wouldn't teach me what
I need to know to move beyond what people
like Gary Franconine and Gary Yourofsky have
already done.
So both of us are people now we're looking
at more higher education we were looking at
we had a video on it recently looking at whether
or not we should become lawyers go to law
school but then you look at that and you contrast
it to you know going to get a degree in culinary
arts getting a degree in bacon getting a degree
in pastries working in a kitchen rolling out
bread and ask yourself what can really be
a platform for making that difference in the
world anyway it's heavy, so we were laughing
and joking around a lot before we came on
camera.
But I mean that really is the burden, I mean
you know I’ve got to say it's the burden
that I've lived with all my life, I really
do feel that way, but veganism gave me a coherent
framework and a lens to understand it and
express it much better than before.
Melissa was exactly like me in this, before
I was vegan I cared way more about never owning
a car and by the way I still never have owned
the car right, still never have driven a car
alright and then after I was vegan you see
that kind of thing in this much more meaningful
quantitative framework, you know and I remember
like some of my ex-girlfriends when I first
got with them they were really hyper about
never using a plastic bag and I said to them
do you want me to show you the stats, do you
want me to show you what percentage of the
human waste stream, that's what people call
it, the human waste stream is reusable plastic
bags, do you want me to show that, and the
difference between using a reusable and disposable,
you want me to show that?
I can get you that now.
And in some studies you know the reusable
plastic bags cause more pollution as well,
it's a really near thing, it's like okay now
do you want to look at the difference between
you know meat versus tofu, this kind of thing.
I'm not saying veganism is the only you know
ecological or ethical cause, but veganism
was both the ineluctably conclusion of those
questions and those misgivings, and it was
also something where once I switched into
veganism, all those other questions you know
made more sense.
In precisely the strictest sense of the word
perspective, it put all the other problems
in perspective, you could see what was big
and what was in fact small but close to you,
you know in contrast to things that really
were huge but perhaps you know more remote.
à-bas-le-ciel